bpo-46677: Add examples of inheritance and attributes to `TypedDict` docs. (#31349)
python/cpython: Doc/library/typing.rst

      The keyword-argument syntax is deprecated in 3.11 and will be removed
      in 3.13. It may also be unsupported by static type checkers.

   The functional syntax should also be used when any of the keys are not valid

>    :ref:`identifiers`, for example because they are keywords or contain hyphens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :ref:`identifiers`.
```

There can be other reasons and not a valid identifier is enough:
```py
from typing import TypedDict

A = TypedDict("A", {"a b c": int})
a = A()
a["a b c"] = 1
```

Reviewer 2: The "for example" wording does not preclude the possibility that there are other reasons; it just gives examples of _some_ of the reasons

Reviewer: Ya, but `not a valid identifier` is enough and no need to give examples as there is a link for identifiers given already.

Reviewer 2: Hmm, I disagree — I don't think it's self-evident what the definition of an "identifier" is, and the link takes you (I think — haven't checked) to an extremely jargony page in the docs that's pretty scary tbh!

I think the examples here are helpful :)

Reviewer: Okay I agree now

      The keyword-argument syntax is deprecated in 3.11 and will be removed
      in 3.13. It may also be unsupported by static type checkers.

>    Furthermore, there is another reason to use the functional syntax. If the keys
>    of ``TypedDicts`` aren't valid identifiers, such as keywords, name with hyphens,
>    etc., we must use the functional syntax.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   The functional syntax should also be used when any of the keys are not valid
   :ref:`identifiers`, for example because they are keywords or contain hyphens.
```
A bit shorter, and cross-link to https://docs.python.org/3.10/reference/lexical_analysis.html#identifiers where identifiers are defined.

   Example::

>       # raise SyntaxError

Reviewer 4: Nit: raise -> raises

      class Point2D(TypedDict):

>           in: int  # 'in'(a keyword)

Reviewer 4: Nit: Maybe `# 'in' is a keyword` would be more explicit?

   ``True`` as the value of the ``total`` argument. ``True`` is the default,
   and makes all items defined in the class body required.

   It is possible for a ``TypedDict`` type to inherit from one or more other ``TypedDict`` types
   using the class-based syntax.
   Usage::

      class Point3D(Point2D):
          z: int

   ``Point3D`` has three items: ``x``, ``y`` and ``z``. It is equivalent to this
   definition::

      class Point3D(TypedDict):
          x: int
          y: int
          z: int

   A ``TypedDict`` cannot inherit from a non-TypedDict class,
   notably including :class:`Generic`. For example::

      class X(TypedDict):
          x: int

      class Y(TypedDict):
          y: int

      class Z(object): pass  # A non-TypedDict class

      class XY(X, Y): pass  # OK

      class XZ(X, Z): pass  # raises TypeError

      T = TypeVar('T')
      class XT(X, Generic[T]): pass  # raises TypeError

>    The type info for introspection can be accessed via annotations dicts

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   A ``TypedDict`` can be introspected via annotations dicts
```
"type info" sounds a bit too informal

   ``True`` as the value of the ``total`` argument. ``True`` is the default,
   and makes all items defined in the class body required.

   It is possible for a ``TypedDict`` type to inherit from one or more other ``TypedDict`` types
   using the class-based syntax.
   Usage::

      class Point3D(Point2D):
          z: int

   ``Point3D`` has three items: ``x``, ``y`` and ``z``. It is equivalent to this
   definition::

      class Point3D(TypedDict):
          x: int
          y: int
          z: int

>    It is worth noting that a ``TypedDict`` cannot inherit from a non-TypedDict class,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   A ``TypedDict`` cannot inherit from a non-TypedDict class,
```

   notably including :class:`Generic`. For example::

      class X(TypedDict):
          x: int

      class Y(TypedDict):
          y: int

      class Z(object): pass  # A non-TypedDict class

      class XY(X, Y): pass  # OK

      class XZ(X, Z): pass  # raises TypeError

      T = TypeVar('T')
      class XT(X, Generic[T]): pass  # raises TypeError

>    The type info for introspection can be accessed via ``Point2D.__annotations__``,

Reviewer 5: Maybe we can link the annotations howto here for `__annotations__` instead of asking the user to directly access the field.

Author: I agree this!
 Also, `__annotations__` is not a best practice in Python versions 3.10 and newer, perhaps it is not appropriate to be emphasized here. 

I will delete the section of `.. attribute:: __annotations__`, and suggest user to access `annotations-howto` directly.

   ``Point2D.__total__``, ``Point2D.__required_keys__``, and
   ``Point2D.__optional_keys__``.

   .. attribute:: __annotations__

      ``Point2D.__annotations__`` gives a dict which maps the field names to the field types::

         >>> from typing import TypedDict
         >>> class Point2D(TypedDict):
         ...     x: int
         ...     y: int
         ...
         >>> Point2D.__annotations__
         {'x': <class 'int'>, 'y': <class 'int'>}

> 

Reviewer 5: I'm not in favour of this section. There's already an entry in [datamodel](https://docs.python.org/3/reference/datamodel.html) for `__annotations__` and and [even longer document](https://docs.python.org/3/howto/annotations.html#annotations-howto) by Larry. This feels like duplicate work.

   .. attribute:: __total__

      ``Point2D.__total__`` gives the value of the ``total`` argument.
      Example::

         >>> class Point2D(TypedDict): pass
         >>> Point2D.__total__
         True
         >>> class Point2D(TypedDict, total=False): pass
         >>> Point2D.__total__
         False
         >>> class Point3D(Point2D): pass
         >>> Point3D.__total__
         True

   .. attribute:: __required_keys__
   .. attribute:: __optional_keys__

      ``Point2D.__required_keys__`` and ``Point2D.__optional_keys__`` return

>       ``frozenset`` objects containing required and non-required keys, respectively.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      :class:`frozenset` objects containing required and non-required keys, respectively.
```

   ``True`` as the value of the ``total`` argument. ``True`` is the default,
   and makes all items defined in the class body required.

   It is possible for a ``TypedDict`` type to inherit from one or more TypedDict types
   using the class-based syntax.
   Usage::

      class Point3D(Point2D):
         z: int

   Now the ``Point3D`` has three items: ``x``, ``y`` and ``z``. It is equivalent to this
   definition::

      class Point3D(TypedDict):
         x: int
         y: int
         z: int

   The type info for introspection can be accessed via ``Point2D.__annotations__``,
   ``Point2D.__total__``, ``Point2D.__required_keys__``, and
   ``Point2D.__optional_keys__``.

   .. attribute:: __annotations__

>       ``Point2D.__annotations__`` gives a dict maps the field names to the field types::

Reviewer 4: Nit: `gives a dict maps` -> `gives a dict which maps`

         >>> from typing import TypedDict
         >>> class Point2D(TypedDict):
         ...     x: int
         ...     y: int
         ...
         >>> Point2D.__annotations__
         {'x': <class 'int'>, 'y': <class 'int'>}

   .. attribute:: __total__

      ``Point2D.__total__`` gives the value of the ``total`` argument::

         >>> class Point2D(TypedDict): pass
         >>> Point2D.__total__
         True
         >>> class Point2D(TypedDict, total=False): pass
         >>> Point2D.__total__
         False

   .. attribute:: __required_keys__
   .. attribute:: __optional_keys__

      ``Point2D.__required_keys__`` and ``Point2D.__optional_keys__`` return

>       ``frozenset`` objects containing required and optional keys, respectively.

Reviewer 4: PEP 655 (Required[] and NotRequired[] for TypedDict) deliberately uses the phrasing "potentially-missing keys" to refer to the concept described by `__optional_keys__` to avoid confusion with Optional[], which is an entirely different concept.

So:

* I might suggest replacing `optional keys` with `potentially-missing keys` here (and in similar locations).
* I could also see using the phrase `not-required keys` to have a different kind of alignment with the upcoming PEP 655.

FWIW, I think it's probably too late to change the name of `__optional_keys__` to avoid confusion with Optional[].

      Currently the only way to set required and optional keys is mixed inheritance,
      declaring a ``TypedDict`` with one value for the ``total`` argument and

>       then inheriting it from another ``TypedDict`` with a different value for ``total``.

Reviewer 4: I'm looking forward to amending this with PEP 655 (Required[] and NotRequired[] for TypedDict). 😄 

(No changes suggested here.)

   ``True`` as the value of the ``total`` argument. ``True`` is the default,
   and makes all items defined in the class body required.

>    It is possible for a ``TypedDict`` type to inherit from one or more TypedDict types

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   It is possible for a ``TypedDict`` type to inherit from one or more other ``TypedDict`` types
```

Reviewer 3: We should probably also add that TypedDicts are not allowed to inherit from anything that is not a TypedDict, notably including `Generic`.

   using the class-based syntax.
   Usage::

      class Point3D(Point2D):
         z: int

>    Now the ``Point3D`` has three items: ``x``, ``y`` and ``z``. It is equivalent to this

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   ``Point3D`` has three items: ``x``, ``y`` and ``z``. It is equivalent to this
```

   definition::

      class Point3D(TypedDict):
         x: int
         y: int
         z: int

   The type info for introspection can be accessed via ``Point2D.__annotations__``,
   ``Point2D.__total__``, ``Point2D.__required_keys__``, and
   ``Point2D.__optional_keys__``.

   .. attribute:: __annotations__

      ``Point2D.__annotations__`` gives a dict which maps the field names to the field types::

         >>> from typing import TypedDict
         >>> class Point2D(TypedDict):
         ...     x: int
         ...     y: int
         ...
         >>> Point2D.__annotations__
         {'x': <class 'int'>, 'y': <class 'int'>}

   .. attribute:: __total__

      ``Point2D.__total__`` gives the value of the ``total`` argument. Furthermore,
      inherited items won't be affected by the totality flag which defined in superclass,

>       and instead use totality of the TypedDict type where they were defined.

Reviewer 3: The second sentence is hard to parse, and feels out of place for the documentation of the `__total__` argument. I suggest to just omit it.

      Example::

         >>> class Point2D(TypedDict): pass
         >>> Point2D.__total__
         True
         >>> class Point2D(TypedDict, total=False): pass
         >>> Point2D.__total__
         False
         >>> class Point3D(Point2D): pass
         >>> Point3D.__total__
         True

   .. attribute:: __required_keys__
   .. attribute:: __optional_keys__

      ``Point2D.__required_keys__`` and ``Point2D.__optional_keys__`` return

>       ``frozenset`` objects containing required and potentially-missing keys, respectively.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      ``frozenset`` objects containing required and non-required keys, respectively.
```

>       Currently the only way to set required and potentially-missing keys is mixed inheritance,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      Currently the only way to declare both required and non-required keys in the same ``TypedDict`` is mixed inheritance,
```
